Let's walk through how to visualize the buystuff.com purchase funnel.
To visualize funnel drop-off in Tableau,
we start with the skills covered in the last section;
discerning what data is available,
putting the steps in order,
and counting the number of users who make it through each step.
These are still the first three steps to creating a funnel drop off visual.
Here is a starting place for visualizing the funnel.
I've already ordered the events and calculated visitor counts for each step,
as this was done for our exercise in lesson 3.
To create a bar chart,
we can select that visual type.
I prefer my bar charts to be vertical,
so let me switch. There we go.
Before this visual can be ready to be put in front of others,
I need to make sure all the labels are readable and correct.
First, I can expand the visual to make sure all the event steps are readable.
Next, I'm going to retitle the chart to
ensure it clearly represents what is being visualized.
I'll edit the sheet name to user drop off conversion per step.
I'll also add labels,
so it is easy to see the user count per step by going to labels and show mark labels.
Finally, I'll color the bars to provide more visual distinction between user steps.
Now we visualize the funnel drop off for
buystuff.com in a way that is easy to understand and share.